How do we turn that collection philosophy into practice?
Or what are the mechanics of diversifying our collection?
Before we start talking about that, let's talk about some general collection development ground rules.
The first ground rule that is true in every case,
you will never be caught up.
Make peace with that now. You will never be caught up.
If you think you are getting caught up,
there will be another Tuesday with all the new books.
And these days,
that also was another Wednesday or another Friday,
because books aren't released just on one day a week anymore.
So, with all of that in coming at you,
you will never be caught up.
And it's okay.
You must be curious.
Collection development is a job of curiosity.
You're always looking for the next thing that will catch fire with your patrons.
And you have so many different kinds of patrons,
that you're looking for different things for different people.
You must be curious and get out there and look for things.
You must be adaptable.
People think libraries move slowly.
But this is an area that moves very quickly.
In terms of what's available, in terms of how we make it available.
In terms of format, from digital to physical, from streaming,
you must be adaptable.
Because things that we're purchasing or trying to purchase
or wanting to purchase are changing very quickly.
We need to keep up.
You will make mistakes. It will happen.
This is an absolute truth. Much like, you will never be caught up.
When you're dealing with the volume of material that you tend to deal with in collection development,
you will make mistakes.
And again, like not ever being caught up. It's okay.
The best thing about making mistakes is you'll never make the same mistake twice.
It won't get done. Unless you do it.
You'll never be caught up. But it won't get done unless you do it.
Because your job is to open the floodgates, not to be a gatekeeper.
Our job is to show our patrons all the things that they know about and all the things that they didn't know they wanted until
they came and saw it on our shelves or in our catalogs.